God dammit, I fell down the /r/unixporn rabbit hole again.

My biggest personal flaw is that I'm never satisfied. Though I really hate any "personality test" (read: Myers-Briggs), I do identify with the description of The Enneagram Institute's [Type Seven](https://www.enneagraminstitute.com/type-7), aka "The Enthusiast." I am the type of person who must know everything about a topic before I can make a decision or form an opinion. I can't just go to the store and buy a pair of headphones, I first have to go to /r/headphones, read all of the guides, and learn about audio engineering. I wanted to buy my parents a new vaccuum cleaner for Christmas, and I quickly found myself hours into watching vaccuum reviews on Youtube ([surprisingly entertaining](https://youtu.be/1uIos2Lulx8)). This is not a joke. I need help.

Side note: I do think Reddit makes this problem worse, since there is a subreddit for everything. [Relevant ProZD video](https://youtu.be/4ZK8Z8hulFg)

I recently bought a new laptop. Luckily there wasn't too much research to do since my budget was somewhat tight, and I already know I like Thinkpads. I ended up with a maxed out T480 with a little cosmetic damage. I needed to make sure I got a laptop with a thunderbolt 3 port to work with my dock (this damn dock will come up later). I also need a reasonable amount of performance since I use Angular for work and the compiler uses Google's "make it run fast by giving it all the RAM" technique.

I don't distrohop anymore. I'm too used to Arch. I do hop desktop environments and window managers. There is a spectrum of Unix GUIs, spanning from "works out of the box, but bloated" to "lightweight, requires lots of configuration to be usable." I first installed Gnome, which is on the former end of the spectrum. I like Gnome. I should just keep using Gnome. Install [arc-theme](https://github.com/horst3180/arc-theme) and [dash-to-panel](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1160/dash-to-panel/), and I'm set. I could easily be productive with a setup like that.

But of course, I'm never satisfied. I love [i3](https://i3wm.org/) and have used it for years. Of course, i3 is at the other end of that spectrum. Luckily, because I have used i3 before, I can just port my old dotfiles over and have a working config. That's exactly what I did, and it worked great!

Unfortuately, that was just too easy. I was experiencing some performance problems with [Compton](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/compton-tryone-git/) and transparent blurring. I was able to get decent performance by disabling blurring, and great performance by just not using a compositor. But not using a compositor bothered me becuase now transparency doesn't work. Then I thought "this is stupid, this is why Wayland exists. So that I don't need a separate compositor." Oh oh. Down the rabbit hole we go.

[https://swaywm.org/](Sway) is billed as a "drop-in replacement for i3" which runs on Wayland. `sudo pacman -S sway` and we're off to the races. Except trying to log in from GDM just kicked me back out to the login screen. Looking through the logs, I found out that the problem was with something called "evdi". Huh, that sounded familiar. It turns out evdi is a kernel module for managing screens which is required by DisplayLink docks. I had installed it to get my dock working and it worked amazingly in i3 and Gnome (even under Wayland, weirdly). But sway doesn't like it. Specifically, wlroots (the set of modules made by the sway guys, on top of which sway is built) doesn't like it. I make this distinction a) to illustrate the rabbit-holiness of this situation and b) because the sway devs made it [very clear](https://github.com/swaywm/sway/issues/4176).

So then I had options. I spent all day today trying each one out. Sway works if I unplug my monitors from my dock. But I like my monitors. I tried to trick myself into believing that I would be more productive with a single monitor, and to just use the laptop built-in display. This almost worked. I am now unsure and will probably go back and forth on it for a while. [idk](https://hackernoon.com/why-i-stopped-using-multiple-monitors-bfd87efa2e5b). For now, I like my monitors. But while I was working with sway and a single monitor, I discovered [waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar) which I love more than i3bar or polybar. And of course it only runs on sway. So then I was back in i3 trying to get compositing to work and hating my polybar. I did finally get compositing working with reasonable performance, using [xcompmgr](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Xcompmgr). Did you know that Compton was actually replaced by a newer fork called Picom? And that Compton is a fork of xcompmgr-dana, which in turn is a fork of xcompmgr? I know that now. I wish I didn't know that.

I'm not even going to pretend that I did all of this in an effort to be productive. I am well aware that I could have written hundreds of lines of code in the time I spent doing this. My setup was just fine before. I do kind of enjoy this stuff, though I wish I didn't. Two parts of my brain are competing. Part of me just wants to write software using my computer, and not care about window managers or compositing or whatever. I think of all the programmers who I look up to; Rich Hickey, Dan Abramov, Bjarne Stroustrup. There's no way they spend this long messing with their system configuration. I view the time I spent on ricing my desktop in the same way I view time I spend watching Youtube or scrolling Reddit. Unfortunately, it's somehow even more addictive, and actively makes me even less productive.

Anyway, I'm going to have a dotfiles repo to share soon. You're welcome to look at it and use any and all of it. But I'm mostly putting it up for myself, in the hopes that next time I get a new computer, I spend just a little less time writing dotfiles and a little more time writing code.

